what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I
have an incredibly exciting video to
make I'm finally going to be doing the
decision making section I can't even
count how many comments I've got and
asked me to do decision making so the
video is finally here
if you guys haven't noticed the channel
is growing at an alarming rate probably
by the time I upload this video we'll
have reached a thousand subscribers
which is crazy Kathleen it's gone into
this bar and I just want to say thank
you guys for watching the videos I'm
continuing to support me also I'll be
doing a Q&A video soon so make sure you
leave questions down in the comment
section below
follow me on Instagram and let's get
right into the video so guys there's a
lot of you know when I wrote the UK card
back in 2016 the decision-making section
wasn't part of the UK account exam we
had it on our test but it would they
were just pilots and get with us so we
had the option to do the questions but
they didn't count towards anything so I
just skipped right past it forgot about
it and moved on with my life when you
guys were requesting for me to do
decision making videos there's a problem
because I hadn't done decision making
before but I decided to do was
collaborate with medified so that I
could use their UK account resources to
learn all the theory behind the decision
making section and then use their
questions that I could practice them and
prepare myself for making this video now
before we get into the video where I
solve questions live on camera I wanted
to give you guys a couple of general
tips I've been doing questions using the
question Bank for a couple of days now
and I've come across a couple of
patterns and things that I think will be
very useful my first tip is to be very
aware of confusing phrases or very aware
of phrases that have very specific
meanings and you want to know exactly
what it is that they mean for example
when I was doing the questions I came
across the word some means any number
above zero it doesn't mean more than 50
it doesn't mean less than 50 it could be
any number more than zero but not equal
to zero something else that I found kind
of confusing when they said less than
ten it's important to keep in mind that
less than ten could mean zero the second
tip I would give is to definitely learn
Venn diagrams and probabilities well
these are topics that tend to come up in
quite a lot of questions and it's fairly
simple maths but basically and invent
diagrams if you're ever making an or
statement then you're adding the two
probabilities and if you're ever making
an and statement then you're multiplying
them that's pretty much all you need to
know but I'll go into more depth in the
video okay third and most importantly
what I found when doing decision making
questions is that you really needed to
follow a line of logic
very clearly and the way that I did this
was to use diagrams very very simple
diagrams similar to this just with
letters arrows maybe some crosses just
to indicate exactly how the logic flows
from one part of the question to the
next practice reading the question and
summarizing it into a small diagram then
when you read the different statements
you can take them use your diagram to
figure out where they fit or if they
don't fit and answer the question really
quickly my fourth tip is to not make any
assumptions
if you can't conclude a statement
directly from the question or from the
paragraph that's given to you then it's
wrong and my fifth and final tip is to
just follow simple logical trains of
thought trails of thought don't make the
question process more difficult for
yourself don't complicate things just
make it in a step a step B step C
fashions that you can follow everything
simply now with the general tips out of
the way let's jump straight into the
questions and go to my computer so here
we are on the medified dashboard this is
where you can see all the tutorials for
the different sections of the UK car and
you can also see down here how you're
doing compared to other students on
medified so this is the tutorial for the
decision making section that i've
watched in full to prepare for this
video and it teaches you the theory
behind the decision making section and
goes through a couple of questions too
and over here there's hundreds and
hundreds of questions for each section
I've mainly focused on the decision
making you guys can see that I've been
doing pretty well in the decision making
section these questions where I got 0
out of 1 I've actually gone in 4 out of
5 but if you get one of the five
questions wrong it marks a zero so as
you can see here I go four out of five
right I'm actually pretty surprised with
how quickly I've been able to do well in
decision making
I found the questions kind of fun almost
like a game and so it's been it's been
really interesting for me to solve them
let's do some practice questions we're
gonna go it down to the decision making
section and I'm gonna choose the general
one that has all the questions included
together and yeah let's get started so
these kinds of questions where you're
asked to select the strongest argument
from the statements below you want to
make sure you make as little assumptions
as possible you want to pick answers
that are based on statistics are based
on facts and that directly relate to the
question directly try and solve a
problem that's in the question something
like that you don't want to do anything
that's opinion based or something that's
just not relevant so let's read the
question should people who are addicted
to illegal drugs be treated for their
addiction
NHS rather than imprisoned if called by
by the police yes people who are
addicted to illegal drugs recovering
much more quickly with the help of NHS
okay no bad yes success or recovering
from addiction has proven to be fifty
five percent when treated by the NHS but
only twenty one percent when released
from prison that's a great answer
because it's saying that it's a good
idea to be treated by the NHS and it
gives statistics to back up that claim
there's no point these drugs being
illegal if the police won't imprison
them it's an opinion these people may
also be selling drugs to others this is
based on no fact it's just an opinion I
think the first one is pretty good but
the second one is even better the next
question should the NHS of the funding
of prep which can protect the partners
of people with HIV from infection in
order to save money which can be spent
on treating patients with cancer yes
because the report found that there are
other cheaper ways of preventing the
transmission of HIV but no other
cost-effective ways to treat cancer
patient that's a very good answer
because it shows a that there's a report
so there's been some research and it
answers the question directly that we
can use other more cheaper methods to
protect from HIV whereas we can to do
that for cancer so we want to save where
we can and keep using the money where we
can't yes because prep prevents
infection rather than treating it okay I
mean that's a good answer but not as
good as this
no because it's discriminating opinion
no because there's strong evidence to
suggest that this can drastically reduce
transmission this is good but it only
answers the first part of the question
it doesn't have anything to do with
patients who need to be treated for
cancer okay so these types of questions
where you're asked to choose if a
conclusion can follow from the passage
you definitely want to read the passage
first so you understand what the context
is that's going on and me personally I
like to draw a diagram so I can just
quickly follow the logic that's in the
question sometimes there's a ton and ton
of information and I find that
simplifying it into a diagram is really
helpful so let me show you guys and
you'll see what I mean
conformists aren't always weak but they
are always ignorant so c2i sometimes
week not all those that are ignorant are
weak but they will be arrogant
so some ignorant
Oh ignorant arrogant so this is what
I've drawn on my piece of paper okay
it's very simple very meaningless to
anyone else it makes perfect sense to me
and help simplify all the different
things that I read in the passage into a
diagram form it makes it easier for me
to follow maybe try this out if it helps
you then great if it doesn't don't worry
you don't need to use them so this first
statement this is all those that are
ignorant are conformists the passage of
the very beginning says the opposite
thing and if the passage says
conformists are always ignorant it
doesn't follow that ignorant people are
always conformists so keep that in mind
that is the sentence doesn't go both
ways so this is a no a weak conformist
will be ignorant conformists aren't
always weak but they are always making
oriented so whether they're weak or not
they're still gonna be ignorant so this
is true a weak person cannot be arrogant
all those that are ignorant are weak not
all those are ignorant are weak but they
will be arrogant so if you're ignorant
you are arrogant and here it is a weak
person cannot be Argand that's not true
we know it's the opposite some arrogant
people will be conformists conformists
are always ignorant okay not all those
that are ignorant are weak but they will
be ignorant arrogant so if you're
ignorant you're arrogant and conformists
are always ignorant so some arrogant
people will be conformist I think is
true more ignorant people are weak than
arrogant while this is confusing knows
that our ignorance are weak but they
will be arguing so more people are
Argand so this is a know this last
sentence is that more people are
arrogant than they are weak if they're
already ignorant I know that's a lot of
words that sound very similar so
hopefully it makes sense so now we have
a Venn diagram question I strongly
suggest that you read the question first
so that you know exactly what relevant
information to go look for it in the
passage and then you pick out the
relevant information based on the
diagram which statement is true survey I
don't care
multiple types so these are all the
different vendor abs and their
corresponding things so let's go through
the statements one by one and decide if
they're true or false six people like
just nature
so which one's nature triangle six
people like just nature that is very
true and we can stop right there because
there's six here that fall into this
triangle that don't fall into the circle
rectangle or this trapezoid here so six
people like just nature that is true and
we'll stop there or what we do the rest
- people like game shows and period
piece dramas so keen show is disappear
these drama is the rectangle so people
like both purities drama angels force as
false hate people making shows interest
circle he comes up as my mate and I keep
it like soap operas if you hunt these up
it's midnight so it's just that first
one next question Amy's buying an
external hard drive says the choice of
either magnetic or solid-state so
magnetic
so today the probability that a hard
drive will be damaged is 0.6 from
magnetic 0.3 for a solid state probably
the hard work will fill up before six
months is sixty percent from magnetic
and three-fifths for solid-state 3 v is
also the same as 60% hopefully you guys
know that so considering only the
likelihood of the hard drive being
damaged or filled up before six months
should a me by the solid state hard
drive so if damaged or filled up before
six months
let's see which one happens first so
that means you have to add the two
probabilities so the probability for the
magnetic one is 0.6 plus 0.6 which is
equal to 1.2 and the probability for the
solid state is 0.3 plus 0.6 which is 0.9
so stretchy by the solid state hard
drive I would say yes this all say hard
drive is less likely to be damaged that
is true yes this also hard drive is more
likely to fill up slower than a magnetic
hard drive no they're likely to fill up
at the same rate so the answer is a the
first one okay you have another one of
these yes/no questions so let's read the
passage first only either in our car was
successful for a job okay after they
both had an interview on Thursday all
the applicants except for Carl had over
ten years of experience applicants
greater than ten years except Carl some
applicants with experience have
excellent communication skills some
applicants with
experience communication no applicants
from Manchester receive an interview
okay I think my diagrams aren't gonna be
very useful for this one so I'm just
gonna look at the passage ian has over
ten years experience all applicants
except for Col had over ten years
experience so that means that ian had
over ten years experience if Col was
successful an interview he en must have
been from Manchester
only one of them was successful no
applicants from Manchester received an
interview so of call was successful
interview and must be from Manchester
could he have been from somewhere else
and not received an interview after they
both had an interview so he can't be ok
so since we know Ian I'm called both had
an interview and no applicants from
Manchester received an interview then
Ian cannot be from Manchester otherwise
he would have not had an interview but
we know that he did call does not have
experience so he does not have excellent
communication skills some applicants
with experience have excellent
communication skills so some of them do
some of them don't so we can't say Oh
Carl does not have experience he does
not have excellent some applicants with
experience have excellent but it doesn't
say anything about applicants without
experience some applicants without
experience could also have excellent
communication skills so we can't say
that this is true yeah it's not true
ian is not from Manchester let's see
what do we know about Ian one of them
was successful all applicants except for
Carl had over 10 years experience so Ian
has 10 years experience I don't know if
we can make this statement I'm gonna go
with no cuz we don't know if he was
success
oh yes of course we know so they both
had an interview and no applicants from
Manchester received an interview so Ian
is not from Manchester because we know
that he had an interview that was
similar to this question here
applicants interviewed on Wednesday were
not successful we don't know anything
about that we just know that they these
two people had an interview on Thursday
okay so it turns out that I got this
question partially correct let's see
which question I got wrong so this one
applicants interviewed on Wednesday were
not successful this can be concluded
the stem states the only either Ian or
Carl were successful and they were both
interviewed on Thursday so everyone
interviewed on Wednesday must have not
been successful okay fine given given
the the assumption that there is only
one job taken up for a successful job
okay and they both had an interview on
Thursday and only one was successful
which means not anyone who interviewed
on other days was not successful so
that's my bad in the reasoning hopefully
that's okay anyway let's move on to more
decision-making questions so should a
prime minister require political
experience before leaving the country
again with these questions don't make
any assumptions try and look for answers
that involve statistics involve reports
involved research in both facts should a
prime minister require political
experience yes most jobs require
experience before being accepted the
role of Prime Minister is no different
this is an opinion having a background
in politics is most likely to provide a
potential prime minister with the
relevant skills required Karen at the
role okay an opinion but seems pretty
good no in the past prime ministers with
political experience have been no more
effective statistically than prime
ministers without political experience
no the most important thing is that they
understand the needs of countries whole
okay so three is definitely the correct
answer and here's why so you really need
to keep your personal opinion out of
these questions for example for me if I
was going on personal opinion I would
have easily just quickly chand it chose
this answer and moved on and this
question the third answer shows that in
the past from experience from evidence
from research that it hasn't been as
effective and that's the one we're gonna
choose more of these questions either
Zoey or Rachel raise the money raise the
most money at the student bake sale for
the child committee all of the students
except Rachel are graduates some of the
graduates are also on the netball team
no student studying chemistry raised the
most money at the bake sale
is always a graduate so she's on the
netball team some of the graduates are
also amenable team so it you don't have
to be on the netball team if you're a
graduate if Rachel raised the most money
at the bake sale Zoey is studying
chemistry
either Zoey or Rachel raised the most
money at the bake sale no students done
in chemistry raised the most so if
Rachel raised the most money then Zoey
is studying chemistry true rachel is not
a graduate so she is not on the netball
team we know that some of the graduates
are on the net
team but it doesn't mean that a non
graduate could not also be on the
netball team so that's a no Zoe raised
the most money at the bake sale she's
not studying chemistry that's true
because no students uh me studying
chemistry raised the most money at the
bake sale if a grantee raised the most
money at the bake sale zoe does not
study chemistry graduate all the
students except Rachel are graduates so
if it was a graduate then it could have
been Zoe if Zoe if a grand jury is the
most money of the big still Zoe does not
study chemistry yes this is true alright
let's see I've gotten four out of five
correct on this question let's see which
one I got wrong rotaries Rachael raised
the most money at the bake sale Zoe is
studying chemistry Rachael raised the
most money at the bake sale we could
conclude that she is not studying
chemistry yeah but Zoe may or may not be
studying chemistry in the text does not
specifying oh my mistake
yeah so if we if we know that Rachel's
not studying chemistry but we don't know
about Zoe my bad
homework should be banned in order to
give students more time for
extracurricular activities personal
opinion of course I'm gonna say yes no
student wants homework but try and push
that aside when you read through the
question and look for anything that of
all statistics or past research yes most
children find that they spend most of
their free time completing the homework
but they have been sent
okay opinion is just statistically
homework has been shown not to improve
academic performance it would be better
for children to spend their time and
activities to develop
extracurricular skills instead it sounds
pretty good know most parents think that
if their children manage parents
thinking it's an opinion no children in
countries where homework is not
generally given have similar levels of
academic performance to those in
countries where homework is encouraged
okay that's also pretty good homework
has been shown not to improve academic
performance it would be better for
children spend their time on activities
so this part here is an opinion and it
it just is extracurricular activities
the read this one sounds good too but
the reason I'm not gonna choose it is
because it doesn't do anything to
address the second part of the question
which is extracurricular activities so
I'm gonna go with the second option next
question so an audit was performed
detailing the number of surgeries
performed
by each individual surgeon in the past
few months it was found that total of
this many surgeries were performed by
four members such an ex surgeon why
whatever which of the following must be
true a surgeon why I performed the most
why performed a third of all and there
was total was three three nine so three
three nine times zero point three three
three
so surgeon why did 112 let's call it 113
and didn't do more 35 a third of all 27
and the remaining so let's see 113 + 35
+ 27 and 175 let's call that three three
nine - 175 so we know that surgeons Ed
performed 164 so the first option can't
be true at least 100 surgeries were
performed each month this was over the
last three months we don't know if all
of these were performed in one month or
in half a month or over three months so
I don't think we can answer that
surgeons II performed the most we
already know this is true from before so
that's what I'm gonna go with okay next
question
so all adults that watch horror movies
also enjoy thriller all the adults in
the cinema over 20 a few the adults in
the cinema do not enjoy watching comedy
and none of the adults that enjoy sci-fi
have children so there are only adults
in the cinema I don't think we can say
that it doesn't tell us whether there
are children and also in the cinema
horror movies are more popular among
adults than comedy movies all adults
that watch horror movies enjoy thriller
okay the daltonism are over 20 a few of
the adults do not enjoy watching comedy
so I would say so obviously I would say
comedy is more popular the adults in the
cinema may have children all of the
watch memories all the old idols in
cinema over twenty yeah there could they
could have children none of the adults
that enjoy sci-fi have children but
adults that enjoy other kinds of genres
could have children Tony is an adult in
the cinema he cannot be watching comedy
a few of the adults in the cinema do not
enjoy watching comedy but there are
still adults that do enjoy it so
this is not true thriller TV series are
popular amongst adults that watch horror
movies all it does the watch horror
movies also enjoyed thriller so that's
true great I'm gonna read the questions
and then go to the graph and the passage
and pick out the meaningful and relevant
information so secretion of growth
hormone stops in the afternoon between
12:00 and 2:00 growth hormone between
12:00 and 2:00 and afternoon PM it stops
okay it definitely decreases but I don't
know if it stops it just might be out of
lower level so I'm gonna say no yeah I'm
not gonna say it stops because even at
2:00 if there is still a basal level so
I'm gonna say no strenuous exercise can
lead to acromegaly in adults
acromegaly here high levels of constant
secretion of growth hormone causes
acromegaly okay
the strenuous exercise lead to high
concentrations so here we see that
strenuous exercise decreases the
concentration so I'm gonna go with no
blood concentrations of growth hormone
we're lowest at 10:00 a.m. 10:00 a.m. is
somewhere here and that seems to be the
lowest I'm gonna go yes the average
adult exercises I mean I don't know
anything about digital hypoglycemia
during Street caused secretion during
the midnight okay hypoglycemia so not
eating or having low blood sugar levels
during sleep caused secretion at
midnight during midnight we stopped
secretion in fact we were increasing
previously to midnight at midnight we
stopped so I'm gonna go with no okay so
again I've managed to get 1 out of the 5
questions wrong in these types of
questions average adult exercises I said
no the correct answer is yes if you get
any question wrong or if you're really
really struggling on a question just
answer it guess it skip and move on
because there'll be plenty of questions
that are easier to answer simpler and
all questions are worth the same mark
alright guys so I've done quite a few
questions as you can see down here I've
done 30 questions today this sort of
keeps track of how many questions you're
doing over time so you know if you've
been consistent in your studying that's
it for me that's
tough decision-making questions in one
day I learned everything about the
decision-making questions from modify
and watch their tutorial the video that
they have to sort of explain the theory
behind the section and then I did some
practice questions over the last couple
of days before recording this video and
yeah hopefully you guys can see that
I've been able to do well on my
progression over time I hope you guys
were able to follow my logic I hope it
all made sense and I hope that you found
this video useful and interesting thanks
so much for watching make sure you leave
a like on this video subscribe to the
channel if you want to see more videos
from me I have a lot of exciting things
coming in the future
I'll see you guys in the next one peace